Chapter 2 Revision (#261)
worldbank/d4di: chapters/planning-data-work.tex

% ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

\begin{fullwidth}
Preparation for collaborative data work begins long before you collect any data,
and involves planning both the software tools you will use yourself
and the collaboration platforms and processes for your team.
In order to be prepared to work on the data you receive with a group,
you need to plan out the structure of your workflow in advance.
This means knowing which data sets and output you need at the end of the process,
how they will stay organized, what types of data you'll handle,
and whether the data will require special handling due to size or privacy considerations.

> Identifying these details creates a \textbf{data map} for your project,

Reviewer: We are mentioning **data map** here but then never specifically explain or give an example of this.

Author: Made non-specific in 106a3c90ebd7c609e1fe91762173cb4463c46301

Author: Improved in 106a3c90ebd7c609e1fe91762173cb4463c46301

Reviewer: ok, this is pragmatic compromise. Given that we do not have a good template for data maps yet, maybe lets go with this.

Reviewer: ok, this is pragmatic compromise. Given that we do not have a good template for data maps yet, maybe lets go with this.

giving you and your team a sense of how information resources should be organized.
It's okay to update this map once the project is underway --
the point is that everyone knows what the plan is.

To implement this plan, you will need to prepare collaborative tools and workflows.
Changing software or protocols halfway through a project can be costly and time-consuming,
so it's important to think ahead about decisions that may seem of little consequence.
For example, things as simple as sharing services, folder structures, and filenames
can be extremely painful to alter down the line in any project.
Similarly, making sure to set up a self-documenting discussion platform
and version control processes
makes working together on outputs much easier from the very first discussion.
This chapter will discuss some tools and processes that
will help prepare you for collaboration and replication.

> We will try to provide free, open-source, and platform-agnostic tools wherever possible,

Reviewer: I know we are only saying we will _try_ to provide tools that are free and open source, but the chapter is very Stata heavy with is very far from either of those. Can we mention the exception of Stata here? Otherwise this feels a bit bait-and-switchy.

Author: 329275d4496f10e26fe2e2a3044ca213d58b3089

and that their corresponding workflows can be agreed on in advance.
These include documentation methods, software choices,
naming schema, organizing folders and outputs, collaborating on code,
managing revisions to files, and reviewing each other's work.
These tasks appear in almost every project,
and their solutions translate well between projects.
Therefore, there are large efficiency gains over time to
thinking in advance about the best way to do these tasks,
instead of throwing together a solution when the task arises.
This chapter will outline the main points to discuss within the team,
and suggest some common solutions for these tasks.

% ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
\subsection{Setting up your computer}

First things first: turn on your computer.
Make sure you have fully updated the operating system,
that it is in good working order,
and that you have a \textbf{password-protected} login.
  \index{password protection}
All machines should have \textbf{hard disk encryption} enabled.
  \index{encryption}
Disk encryption is built-in on most modern operating systems;

> the service is currently called BitLocker on Windows or FileVault on MacOS.

Reviewer: This is far from true. This feature is only built in in Windows Business. In the Windows Home edition this does not exist. https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/4028713/windows-10-turn-on-device-encryption

Author: what about https://www.howtogeek.com/173592/windows-8.1-will-start-encrypting-hard-drives-by-default-everything-you-need-to-know/? I'll hold on this. But to me it seems this kind of protection should be absolutely mandatory.... ugh although I realize most Android phones probably are not secure either, they should have less disk data right?

Reviewer: while I agree with you in principle, I am uncomfortable to recommend a tool that is not built in to the OS that if you screw up makes you loose all your data. Should we discuss what to recommend when we meet on Tuesday?

Author: https://github.com/worldbank/d4di/issues/328

Disk encryption prevents your files from ever being accessed
without first entering the system password.
This is different from file-level encryption,
which makes individual files unreadable without a specific key.
(We will address that in more detail later.)
As with all critical passwords, your system password should be strong,
memorable, and backed up in a separate secure location.

Make sure your computer is backed up to prevent information loss.
  \index{backup}

> Follow the \textbf{3-2-1 rule}: maintain 3 copies of all critical data,

Reviewer: I am not sure everyone reading this will interpret _critical data_ the way it is intended there. In https://github.com/worldbank/d4di/issues/183 we talk about using the term master data. 

The main point is that we should back the rawest version of all data? All other data can be derived from that. that is the point right? So what about this:

_ maintain 3 copies of the original version of all data_

Author: 6510324e00564293b22c9292f3a377cc62531590

on at least 2 different hardware devices you have access to,
with 1 offsite storage method.\sidenote{
  \url{https://www.backblaze.com/blog/the-3-2-1-backup-strategy/}}
One reasonable setup is having your primary computer,
a local hard drive managed with a tool like Time Machine
(alternatively, a fully synced secondary computer),
and either a remote copy maintained by a cloud backup service
or all original files stored on a remote server.
Dropbox and other synced files count only as local copies and never as remote backups,

> because other users can alter or delete them.

Reviewer: * _Time Machine_ is a specific Mac tool. We can't introduce that without a link or without a Windows alternative.
* What do you mean by a local hard drive here? A second drive on your machine?

I think we can say the same thing in a way that does not introduce new software or terminology.

_One example of this setup is having one copy on your primary computer, one copy on an external hard drive stored in a safe place, and one copy in the cloud. In this case, Dropbox and other automatic file sync services does not count as your cloud copy, as other users can alter or delete them, unless you create a specific folder for this purpose that is not shared with anyone else._

Author: 7595fad5aa947bf20ac7ba38cd78f515d9f3ecb2

  \index{Dropbox}

Find your \textbf{home folder}. It is never your desktop.
On MacOS, this will be a folder with your username.
On Windows, this will be something like ``This PC''.
Ensure you know how to get the \textbf{absolute file path} for any given file.
Using the absolute file path, starting from the filesystem root,
means that the computer will never accidentally load the wrong file.
  \index{file paths}
On MacOS this will be something like \path{/users/username/dropbox/project/...},

> and on Windows, \path{C:/users/username/Github/project/...}.

Reviewer: Why is the Mac path to DropBox and the Windows path to GutHub?

Readers new to a topic gets hung up on small differences like that wondering if they should try to read in any meaning to that.

Author: I changed both to "git" so that it is a generic path

717a0b861969d31f621b925db0406408c57ae781

and you cannot shift files between them without losing historical information.
Therefore, choosing the correct sharing service at the outset is essential.

% ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
\subsection{Documenting decisions and tasks}

Once your technical and sharing workspace is set up,
you need to decide how you are going to communicate with your team.
The first habit that many teams need to break
is using instant communication for management and documentation.
Email is, simply put, not a system. It is not a system for anything. Neither is WhatsApp.\index{email}\index{WhatsApp}
These tools are developed for communicating ``now'' and this is what they do well.
They are not structured to manage group membership or to present the same information
across a group of people, or to remind you when old information becomes relevant.
They are not structured to allow people to collaborate over a long time or to review old discussions.
It is therefore easy to miss or lose communications from the past when they have relevance in the present.
Everything that is communicated over e-mail or any other instant medium should

> immediately be transferred into a system that is designed to keep records.

Reviewer: I think we are more convincing in the point we are trying to make if we were more specific here. I understand that what we mean here is not that every single email - no matter how irrelevant - should be transferred to another system, but if one read literary what we currently say, then that is what we are saying.

I guess the point is that once one get an email one should make a decision if that information will ever be relevant for anyone in the future. If not (like an email about when to meet next week), then it is fine to keep it only as an email. But if it is (like an email about dropping a part of the sample) then that information should be moved to a less instant and individual based system. That is not the best way to say it, but do you guys agree that that is the point we are making?

Author: 5719c82dbeb25511551a1a2d465f32055a095d11

We further assume you will want all your processes to be recorded
and easily findable at any point in time.
Maintaining an organized file structure for data work is the best way
to ensure that you, your teammates, and others
are able to easily advance, edit, and replicate your work in the future.
It also ensures that automated processes from code and scripting tools
are able to interact well with your work,
whether they are yours or those of others.
File organization makes your own work easier as well as more transparent,
and interacts well with tools like version control systems
that aim to cut down on the amount of repeated tasks you have to perform.
It is worth thinking in advance about how to store, name, and organize
the different types of files you will be working with,
so that there is no confusion down the line
and everyone has interoperable expectations.

% ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
\subsection{Organizing files and folder structures}

Agree with your team on a specific directory structure,
and set it up at the beginning of the research project

> in your top-level shared folder (the one over which you can control access permissions).

Reviewer: We call this _root folder_ somewhere else. I think that is the term we should make everyone understand, so lets use that here as well

Author: b77f61e14cc0d8d9e42143b5c1621a4991c6c47e

Disk encryption prevents your files from ever being accessed
without first entering the system password.
This is different from file-level encryption,
which makes individual files unreadable without a specific key.
(We will address that in more detail later.)
As with all critical passwords, your system password should be strong,
memorable, and backed up in a separate secure location.

Make sure your computer is backed up to prevent information loss.
  \index{backup}
Follow the \textbf{3-2-1 rule}: maintain 3 copies of all critical data,
on at least 2 different hardware devices you have access to,
with 1 offsite storage method.\sidenote{
  \url{https://www.backblaze.com/blog/the-3-2-1-backup-strategy/}}
One reasonable setup is having your primary computer,
a local hard drive managed with a tool like Time Machine
(alternatively, a fully synced secondary computer),
and either a remote copy maintained by a cloud backup service
or all original files stored on a remote server.
Dropbox and other synced files count only as local copies and never as remote backups,
because other users can alter or delete them.
  \index{Dropbox}

> Find your \textbf{home folder}. It is never your desktop.

Reviewer: Why do we introduce *home folder* without not using that term again?

Reviewer: **This PC** is not a great equivalence to _home folder_ and we are not really talking about home folders again. I think we should remove this.

Author: c17d4b1e4ffbf81f2492900a274face4fda34d68

On MacOS, this will be a folder with your username.
On Windows, this will be something like ``This PC''.
Ensure you know how to get the \textbf{absolute filepath} for any given file.
Using the absolute filepath, starting from the filesystem root,
means that the computer will never accidentally load the wrong file.
  \index{filepaths}
On MacOS this will be something like \path{/users/username/dropbox/project/...},
and on Windows, \path{C:/users/username/Github/project/...}.

> We will write filepaths such as \path{/Dropbox/project-titleDataWorkEncryptedData/},

Reviewer: Where does this `We will write filepaths such as` refer to? in the book? I am also a bit confused about this.

> We will write filepaths such as \path{/Dropbox/project-titleDataWorkEncryptedData/},

Author: Revised in d32ed2428fa30a7e707e43b455d2eb0dc9de9ecc to be prescriptive

immediately be transferred into a system that is designed to keep records.
We call these systems collaboration tools, and there are several that are very useful.\sidenote{
  \url{https://dimewiki.worldbank.org/wiki/Collaboration_Tools}}
  \index{collaboration tools}

Many collaboration tools are web-based
so that everyone on your team can access them simultaneously
and have live discussions about tasks and processes.
Many are based on an underlying system known as ``Kanban''.\sidenote{
  \url{https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kanban_board}}
This task-oriented system allows the team to create and assign tasks,
carry out discussions related to single tasks,
track task progress across time, and quickly see the overall project state.
These systems therefore link communication to specific tasks so that
the records related to decision making on those tasks is permanently recorded
and easy to find in the future when questions about that task come up.
One popular and free implementation of this system is the one found in GitHub project boards.
Other systems which offer similar features (but are not explicitly Kanban-based)

> are GitHub Issues and Dropbox Paper, which has a more chronological structure.

Reviewer: A list of tools will quickly be outdated. Maybe not GitHub. When I read this I thought the reason we mentioned two tools was that one is technical and one is organizational. As in, do not use code documenting tools like GitHub Issues to regular project management. It makes project management inaccessible to non-technical people. But that point is not made explicitly if that is the point.

> are GitHub Issues and Dropbox Paper, which has a more chronological structure.

Author: I like that point and borrowed your words for abdb5e30f6d5d4f48b9b0872f043216b7fa3a135

> are GitHub Issues and Dropbox Paper, which has a more chronological structure.

Reviewer 2: Looks great to me. @kbjarkefur, go ahead and mark this as resolved if it's good for you as well.

since most of your time will be spent writing and re-writing your code.
This does not need to be the same program as the code runs in,
and the various members of your team do not need to use the same editor.
Using an external editor can be preferable since your editor will not crash if your code does,
and may offer additional features aimed at writing code well.
If you are working in R, \textbf{RStudio} is the typical choice.\sidenote{
  \url{https://www.rstudio.com}}
For Stata, the built-in do-file editor is the most widely adopted code editor,
but \textbf{Atom}\sidenote{\url{https://atom.io}} and
\textbf{Sublime}\sidenote{\url{https://www.sublimetext.com/}}
can also be configured to run Stata code externally,
while offering great code accessibility and quality features.
(We recommend setting up and becoming comfortable with one of these.)
For example, these editors can access an entire directory -- rather than a single file --
which gives you access to directory views and file management actions,
such as folder management, Git integration,
and simultaneous work with other types of files, without leaving the editor.

In our field of development economics,

> Stata is by far the most commonly used programming language,

Reviewer: I do not know about `by far`. That is a statement that is likely to be outdated very soon.

Author: https://aeadataeditor.github.io/presentation-20191211/#9
🤷
aab065bb7d0259b21614ce8565f411c36fbebcbc

Reviewer: ok, you might have the stats on your side, but I like the word _currently_ much better. At least it does not seem as much as if we are promoting it.

and the Stata do-file editor the most common editor.
We focus on Stata-specific tools and instructions in this book.
Hence, we will use the terms `script' and `do-file'
interchangeably to refer to Stata code throughout.
This is only in part due to its popularity.

> Stata is primarily a scripting language for statistics and data,

Author: 😜fine 178f473ac62ab2cd7cd14a2257290c1136c33cd2

meaning that its users often come from economics and statistics backgrounds
and understand Stata to be encoding a set of tasks as a record for the future.
We believe that this must change somewhat:
in particular, we think that practitioners of Stata
must begin to think about their workflows more as programmers do,
and that people who adopt this approach will be dramatically
more capable in their analytical ability.
This means that they will be more productive when managing teams,
and more able to focus on the challenges of experimental design
and econometric analysis, rather than spending excessive time
re-solving problems on the computer.
To support this goal, this book also includes
an introductory Stata Style Guide
that we use in our work, which provides
some new standards for coding so that code styles
can be harmonized across teams for easier understanding and reuse of code.
Stata also has relatively few resources of this type available,
and the ones that we have created and shared here

> we hope will be an asset to all its users.

Reviewer: yeah, it seems as we very strongly recommending something we describe only vaguely.

> we hope will be an asset to all its users.

Reviewer: While reading this again I thought that the point we are making is that the workflow for writing code must be elevated to be taken as seriously as the research itself. So what about this:

_in particular, we think that practitioners of Stata must begin to think about their code programming workflows just as methodologically as they things about their research workflow_.

> we hope will be an asset to all its users.

Author: Brilliant! 04dab1b1313e85c42ea7307cbb2853b320dcce80

> we hope will be an asset to all its users.

Reviewer: Resolved IMHO, @luizaandrade ?

> we hope will be an asset to all its users.

Reviewer 2: Perfect!

\section{Organizing code and data}

Organizing files and folders is not a trivial task.
What is intuitive to one person rarely comes naturally to another,
and searching for files and folders is everybody's least favorite task.
As often as not, you come up with the wrong one,
and then it becomes very easy to create problems that require complex resolutions later.
This section will provide basic tips on managing the folder
that will store your project's data work.

We assume you will be working with code and data throughout your project.
We further assume you will want all your processes to be recorded
and easily findable at any point in time.
Maintaining an organized file structure for data work is the best way
to ensure that you, your teammates, and others
are able to easily advance, edit, and replicate your work in the future.
It also ensures that automated processes from code and scripting tools
are able to interact well with your work,
whether they are yours or those of others.
File organization makes your own work easier as well as more transparent,
and interacts well with tools like version control systems

> that aim to cut down on the amount of repeated tasks you have to perform.

Author: Tried in 4f7ce7d80ad3c516a61ea5a620cd25e8fec8c5fa

without needing to rely on dreaded filename-based versioning conventions.
For technical files, however, a more detailed version control system is usually desirable.
We recommend using Git\sidenote{
  \textbf{Git:} a multi-user version control system for collaborating on and tracking changes to code as it is written.}
for all plaintext files.
Git tracks all the changes you make to your code,
and allows you to go back to previous versions without losing the information on changes made.
It also makes it possible to work on multiple parallel versions of the code,
so you don't risk breaking the code for other team members as you try something new.
The DIME file management and organization approach is designed with this in mind.

Once the \texttt{DataWork} folder's directory structure is set up,
you should adopt a file naming convention.
You will generally be working with two types of files:
``technical'' files, which are those that are accessed by code processes,
and ``non-technical'' files, which will not be accessed by code processes.
The former takes precedent: an Excel file is a technical file

> even if it is a field log, because at some point it will be used by code.

Author: "code-related" and "non-code-related"? but it is too clunky....

> even if it is a field log, because at some point it will be used by code.

Reviewer: I agree that most readers will not think of code when we say "technical". Agree that it is difficult to find a better term that is not too clunky. But if we are to go with "technical" then we need to explain what we mean so it is not confused with a more common interpretation of that word in our research community

> even if it is a field log, because at some point it will be used by code.

Reviewer 2: I checked again and we use the word "technical" quite a few times in the chapter, and not always in this sense. Could we call it "data work files"?

> even if it is a field log, because at some point it will be used by code.

Reviewer: This seems like something well suited for our big discussion and work meeting today

you can use spaces and datestamps in names of non-technical files, but not technical ones:
the former might have a name like \texttt{2019-10-30 Sampling Procedure Description.docx}
while the latter might have a name like \texttt{endline-sampling.do}.
Technical files have stricter requirements than non-technical ones.\sidenote{
  \url{http://www2.stat.duke.edu/~rcs46/lectures_2015/01-markdown-Git/slides/naming-slides/naming-slides.pdf}}
For example, you should never use spaces in technical names;
this can cause problems in code. (This includes all folder names.)
Similarly, technical files should never include capital letters.
One organizational practice that takes some getting used to
is the fact that the best names from a coding perspective
are usually the opposite of those from an English perspective.
For example, for a deidentified household dataset from the baseline round,
you should prefer a name like \texttt{baseline-household-deidentified.dta},
rather than the opposite way around as occurs in natural language.
This ensures that all \texttt{baseline} data stays together,
then all \texttt{baseline-household} data,

> and finally provides unique information about this specific file.

Reviewer 2: New paragraph:

> We will not give much emphasis to files that are not linked to code here;
> but you should make sure to name them in an orderly fashion that works for your team.
> These rules will ensure you can find files within folders
> and reduce the amount of time others will spend opening files
> to find out what is inside them.
> The main point to be considered is that files accessed by code need face more restrictions\sidenote{
>   \url{http://www2.stat.duke.edu/~rcs46/lectures_2015/01-markdown-Git/slides/naming-slides/naming-slides.pdf}},
> as different software and operating systems read file names in different ways.
> Some of the differences between the two naming approaches are major and may be new to you, 
> so below are a few examples. 
> Introducing spaces between words in a file name (including the folder path) 
> can break a file's path when it's read by code, 
> so while a Word document may be called \texttt{2019-10-30 Sampling Procedure Description.docx},
> a related do file would have a name like \texttt{endline-sampling.do}.
> Adding timestamps to binary files as in the example above can be useful,
> as it is less straight-forward to track changes. 
> However, for plaintext files tracked using Git, timestamps are an unnecessary distraction.
> Similarly, technical files should never include capital letters, 
> as strings are not case-sensitive in some software.
> Finally, one organizational practice that takes some getting used to
> is the fact that the best names from a coding perspective
> are usually the opposite of those from an English perspective.
> For example, for a deidentified household dataset from the baseline round,
> you should prefer a name like \texttt{baseline-household-deidentified.dta},
> rather than the opposite way around as occurs in natural language.
> This ensures that all \texttt{baseline} data stays together,
> then all \texttt{baseline-household} data,
> and finally provides unique information about this specific file.

Reviewer: @luizaandrade , are you putting in quote formatting what you are suggesting that this paragraph should be instead? it is unclear to me

Reviewer 2: Yes, that's right. I see it is confusing

Author: Inserted in 35d91c3e22fd67afa2323ed9200f18377614ce96

folders for non-primary data sources, although this is less well developed.
The package also includes the \texttt{iegitaddmd} command,
which can place a \texttt{README.md} file in each of these folders.
These \textbf{Markdown} files provide an easy and Git-compatible way
to document the contents of every folder in the structure.
  \index{Markdown}

The \texttt{DataWork} folder may be created either inside
an existing project-based folder structure, or it may be created separately.
It's usually created by the leading RA in agreement with the PI.
Increasingly, our recommendation is to create the \texttt{DataWork} folder
separately from the project management materials,
reserving the ``project folder'' for contracts, Terms of Reference, briefs and other administrative or management work.
  \index{project folder}
This is so the project folder can be maintained in a synced location like Dropbox,
while the code folder can be maintained in a version-controlled location like GitHub.
(Remember, a version-controlled folder can \textit{never} be stored inside a synced folder,
because the versioning features are extremely disruptive to others

> when the syncing utility operates on them, and vice versa.)

Reviewer: For such a string recommendation I think it is a bit imprecise. You can put it in a synced folder as long as you that is not a folder you sync-share with anyone.

What about?

_(Remember, a git folder \textit{should not} be stored inside a folder shared with other
users using a sync service like DropBox, as those two types of collaboration tools works very differently and that difference can lead to strange conflicts if applied at the same time.)_

Author: OK 89a538ab1139f5c4871fca0d6bdb87cb34a3ab95

% ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

\begin{fullwidth}
Preparation for collaborative data work begins long before you collect any data,
and involves planning both the software tools you will use yourself
and the collaboration platforms and processes for your team.
In order to be prepared to work on the data you receive with a group,
you need to plan out the structure of your workflow in advance.
This means knowing which data sets and output you need at the end of the process,
how they will stay organized, what types of data you'll handle,
and whether the data will require special handling due to size or privacy considerations.
Identifying these details should help you map out the data needs for your project,
giving you and your team a sense of how information resources should be organized.
It's okay to update this map once the project is underway --

> the point is that everyone knows what the plan is.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the point is that everyone knows - at any given time - what the plan is.
```
This was suggested in #181. Any particular reason it was not implemented or just lost in the maelstrom of issues?

your folder structure can be shared using Git. Since these placeholder files are in
\textbf{Markdown} they also provide an easy way
to document the contents of every folder in the structure.
  \index{Markdown}

The \texttt{DataWork} folder may be created either inside
an existing project-based folder structure, or it may be created separately.
It's usually created by the leading RA in agreement with the PI.
Increasingly, our recommendation is to create the \texttt{DataWork} folder
separately from the project management materials,
reserving the ``project folder'' for contracts, Terms of Reference, briefs and other administrative or management work.
  \index{project folder}
This is so the project folder can be maintained in a synced location like Dropbox,
while the code folder can be maintained in a version-controlled location like GitHub.
(Remember, a version-controlled folder \textit{should not}
be stored in a synced folder that is shared with other people.
Those two types of collaboration tools function very differently
and will almost always create undesired functionality if combined.)
Nearly all code files and raw outputs (not datasets) are best managed this way.

> This is because code files are usually \textbf{plaintext} files,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is because code files are always \textbf{plaintext} files,
```
Related to issue #192, but this is something that we might want to change anyways.

and ``non-technical'' files, which will not be accessed by code processes.
The former takes precedent: an Excel file is a technical file
even if it is a field log, because at some point it will be used by code.
We will not give much emphasis to files that are not linked to code here;
but you should make sure to name them in an orderly fashion that works for your team.
These rules will ensure you can find files within folders
and reduce the amount of time others will spend opening files
to find out what is inside them.

> The main point to be considered is that files accessed by code face more restrictions\sidenote{

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The main point to be considered is that there are more to names of files accessed by code\sidenote{
```

Author: 271801d46060e8632ee3d7a30d4e9ecb3403c7a5

but if the code is well-organized, they will be much easier to make.
Below we discuss a few crucial steps to code organization.
They all come from the principle that code is an output by itself,
not just a means to an end,
and should be written thinking of how easy it will be for someone to read it later.

Code documentation is one of the main factors that contribute to readability.

> Start by adding a code header to every file.

Reviewer: I think we need to explain what a _code header_ is as that is not obvious if you haven't seen one. Have we introduced _comments_ by this point?

Author: 986930ce31bea45f857c944877430b2232aae69e

if you know the language well enough and the code is clear,
but often it is still a great deal of work to reverse-engineer the code's intent.
Writing the task in plain English (or whichever language you communicate with your team on)
will make it easier for everyone to read and understand the code's purpose
-- and also for you to think about your code as you write it.
The second type of comment explains why the code is performing a task in a particular way.
As you are writing code, you are making a series of decisions that
(hopefully) make perfect sense to you at the time.
These are often highly specialized and may exploit a functionality
that is not obvious or has not been seen by others before.
Even you will probably not remember the exact choices that were made in a couple of weeks.
Therefore, you must document your precise processes in your code.

Code organization means keeping each piece of code in an easily findable location.
  \index{code organization}
Breaking your code into independently readable ``chunks'' is one good practice on code organization,
because it ensures each component does not depend on a complex program state

> created by other chunks that are not obvious from the immediate context.

Reviewer: Just breaking the code into chunks does not "ensures each component does not depend on a complex program state
created by other chunks that are not obvious from the immediate context"

You need to write that code in a modular fashion for that to be true, and that is not what this paragraph is saying. Either we should reduce what we promise, or write something about these _chunks_ must be written independent on each other. You are saying that is a result of chunkification, but I think that is a requirement of chunkification having any benefit.

Author: 80a42c84df22acb662032c394e36305777a479b0

One way to do this is to create sections where a specific task is completed.
So, for example, if you want to find the line in your code where a variable was created,
you can go straight to \texttt{PART 2: Create new variables},
instead of reading line by line through the entire code.
RStudio, for example, makes it very easy to create sections,
and it compiles them into an interactive script index for you.
In Stata, you can use comments to create section headers,
though they're just there to make the reading easier and don't have functionality.

> Adding an index to the header by copying and pasting section titles is the easiest way to create a code map.

Reviewer: we do explain code map anywhere. Should we call it an index or a table of content?

Author: 80a42c84df22acb662032c394e36305777a479b0

The code in \texttt{stata-master-dofile.do} shows how folder structure is reflected in a master do-file.

In order to maintain these practices and ensure they are functioning well,
you should agree with your team on a plan to review code as it is written.
  \index{code review}
Reading other people's code is the best way to improve your coding skills.
And having another set of eyes on your code will make you more comfortable with the results you find.
It's normal (and common) to make mistakes as you write your code.
Reading it again to organize and comment it as you prepare it to be reviewed will help you identify them.
Try to have a code review scheduled frequently,
every time you finish writing a piece of code, or complete a small task.
If you wait for a long time to have your code reviewed, and it gets too complex,
preparation and code review will require more time and work,
and that is usually the reason why this step is skipped.
One other important advantage of code review if that
making sure that the code is running properly on other machines,
and that other people can read and understand the code easily,

> is the easiest way to be prepared in advance for a smooth project handover.

Reviewer: This is more than project handover, right? What we have said here also applies to projects where a single PhD candidate works on a paper that no one else ever will work on? Doesn't it have more to do with Research Transparency?

I guess it is Research Transparency in all projects and also project handover in collaborative projects.

Author: 92f4a942d26172f943ee9fe9f1359f6ae3555547

When the first outputs are being created, agree on where to store them,
what softwares and formats to use, and how to keep track of them.

% Where to store outputs
Decisions about storage of outputs are made easier by technical constraints.
As discussed above, version control systems like Git are a great way to manage
plaintext files, and sync softwares such as Dropbox are better for binary files.
Outputs will similarly come in these two formats, depending on your software.
Binary outputs like Excel files, PDFs, PowerPoints, or Word documents can be kept in a synced folder.
Raw outputs in plaintext formats like \texttt{.tex} and \texttt{.eps}
can be created from most analytical software and managed with Git.
Tracking plaintext outputs with Git makes it easier to identify changes that affect results.
If you are re-running all of your code from the master when significant changes to the code are made,
the outputs will be overwritten, and changes in coefficients and number of observations, for example,
will be highlighted for you to review.
In fact, one of the most effective ways to check code quickly
is simply to commit all your code and outputs using Git,

> then re-run the entire thing and examine any flagged changes in the directory.

Reviewer: This sentence only makes sense if you already understand Git:
> In fact, one of the most effective ways to check code quickly is simply to commit all your code and outputs using Git, then re-run the entire thing and examine any flagged changes in the directory.

But I think you have already made the point this sentence is making in preceding sentence. Currently I think the quoted sentence only repeats a point already made, but int a way that might confuse someone new to Git. Two ideas, use neither, either or both. 
1. make it explicit in the sentence before that it is Git highlighting _will be highlighted by Git for you to review_
2. Update this last sentence to say that in DIME Analytics we just exactly this when reviewing code.

Author: c71b4ba071c4add8739dbcd88b55ab2861aa79d3

No matter what choices you make,
you will need to make updates to your outputs quite frequently.
And anyone who has tried to recreate a graph after a few months probably knows
that it can be hard to remember where you saved the code that created it.
Here, naming conventions and code organization play a key role
in not re-writing scripts again and again.

> It is common for teams to maintain one analyisis file or folder with ``exploratory analysis'',

Reviewer: Is _exploratory analysis_ always a draft? I think using the word _draft_ makes it more clear what this is than going into explanations like "_pieces of code that are stored only to be found again in the future,
but not cleaned up to be included in any outputs yet_"

Author: 825da0e33d7e13898d08ab76af09ab7bfef64487

The main advantage of using {\LaTeX} is that you can write dynamic documents,
that import inputs every time they are compiled.
This means you can skip the copying and pasting whenever an output is updated.
Because it's written in plaintext, it's also easier to control and document changes using Git.
Creating documents in {\LaTeX} using an integrated writing environment such as TeXstudio, TeXmaker or LyX
is great for outputs that focus mainly on text,
but include small chunks of code and static code outputs.
This book, for example, was written in {\LaTeX} and managed on GitHub\sidenote{\url{https://github.com/worldbank/d4di}}.

Another option is to use the statistical software's dynamic document engines.
This means you can write both text (in Markdown) and code in the script,
and the result will usually be a PDF or \texttt{html} file including code, text, and outputs.
Dynamic document tools are better for including large chunks of code and dynamically created graphs and tables,
but formatting these can be much trickier and less full-featured than other editors.
So dynamic documents can be great for creating appendices
or quick documents with results as you work on them,

> but are not usuall considered for final papers and reports.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but are not usually considered for final papers and reports.
```
